Add documentation for RayService (#387)
ray-project/kuberay: docs/guidance/rayservice.md

## Ray Service (alpha)

> > Note: This is the alpha version of Ray Service. There will be ongoing improvements for Ray Service in the future releases.

Reviewer: `Service -> Services`, almost everywhere, including in all three spots above this comment.
https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/285#issuecomment-1145529800 :p

### Prerequisite

* Ray 2.0 is required.

> ### What is RayService?

Reviewer: `What is a RayService`

> RayService is new CR supported by KubeRay in v0.3.0.

Reviewer: `a new CR`

> RayService manages 2 things:

Reviewer: `A RayService manages 2 things`

* RayCluster: Manages resources in kubernetes cluster.
* Rey Serve Deployment Graph: Manages users' serve deployment graph.

### What does RayService provide?

> * Kubernetes natively support for ray cluster and ray serve deployment graph. Users can use kubernetes config to define ray cluster and ray serve deployment graph. Users can use `kubectl` create ray cluster and ray serve deployment graph.  

Reviewer: `Kubernetes-native support for Ray cluster and Ray Serve deployment graphs`

### Operator operations

Deploy the operator

`kubectl apply -k "github.com/ray-project/kuberay/ray-operator/config/default"`

Check that the controller is running.

```shell
$ kubectl get deployments -n ray-system
NAME           READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
ray-operator   1/1     1            1           40s

$ kubectl get pods -n ray-system
NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
ray-operator-75dbbf8587-5lrvn   1/1     Running   0          31s
```

Delete the operator

`kubectl delete -k "github.com/ray-project/kuberay/ray-operator/config/default"`

### Run an example cluster

There is one example config file to deploy RaySerive included here:
[ray_v1alpha1_rayservice.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray_v1alpha1_rayservice.yaml)

```shell
# Create a ray service and deploy fruit deployment graph.
$ kubectl apply -f config/samples/ray_v1alpha1_rayservice.yaml
```

```shell
# List running RayServices.
$ kubectl get rayservice
NAME                AGE
rayservice-sample   7s
```

```shell

> # The created RayService should include a head pod, a worker pod, and four services.

Reviewer: Should probably mention what each of these services is.

rayservice-sample-head-svc                         ClusterIP   10.100.34.24     <none>        6379/TCP,8265/TCP,10001/TCP,8000/TCP,52365/TCP   24m
rayservice-sample-raycluster-qd2vl-dashboard-svc   ClusterIP   10.100.109.177   <none>        52365/TCP                                        24m
rayservice-sample-raycluster-qd2vl-head-svc        ClusterIP   10.100.180.221   <none>        6379/TCP,8265/TCP,10001/TCP,8000/TCP,52365/TCP   24m
rayservice-sample-serve-svc                        ClusterIP   10.100.39.92     <none>        8000/TCP                                         24m
```

### Access User Service

The users' traffic can go through the `serve` service (for example, `rayservice-sample-serve-svc`).

Run a curl pod:
`kubectl run curl --image=radial/busyboxplus:curl -i --tty`

For the fruit example deployment, you can try the following request
```shell
[ root@curl:/ ]$ curl  -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' rayservice-sample-serve-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:8000 -d '["MANGO", 2]'
6
```
You can get the response as `6`.

> * Note: serve-svc will do traffic routing among all the workers which have serve deployments. It is HA in general.

Reviewer: These notes are all about serve-svc being `HA in general`.
Maybe you could start by saying that serve-svc is HA and follow with the notes as explanation.

      lastUpdateTime: "2022-07-18T21:51:41Z"
      name: MangoStand
      status: UPDATING
```

After it finishes deployment, let's send a request again.
```shell
[ root@curl:/ ]$ curl  -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' rayservice-sample-serve-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:8000 -d '["MANGO", 2]'
8
```
Now you will get `8` as a result.

### Upgrade RayService RayCluster Config
You can update the `rayClusterConfig` in your RayService config file.
For example, you can increase the worker node num to 2.
```shell
workerGroupSpecs:
  # the pod replicas in this group typed worker
  - replicas: 2
```

Do a `kubectl apply` to update your RayService.

You can check the kubernetes stats of your RayService. It should show similar:
```shell
  pendingServiceStatus:
    appStatus: {}
    dashboardStatus:
      healthLastUpdateTime: "2022-07-18T21:54:53Z"
      lastUpdateTime: "2022-07-18T21:54:54Z"
    rayClusterName: rayservice-sample-raycluster-bshfr
    rayClusterStatus: {}
```
You can see RayService is preparing a pending cluster. After the pending cluster is healthy, RayService will switch it as active cluster and terminate the previous cluster.

### RayService Observability

> RayService is native kubernetes CRD. You can use `kubectl logs` to check the operator logs or the head/worker nodes logs.

Reviewer: I'd remove the first sentence `RayService is native kubernetes CRD`.

You can also use `kubectl describe rayservices rayservice-sample` to check the states and event logs of your RayService instance.

> You can also login the head pod and use Ray cli to check the logs.

Reviewer: Could you elaborate on this with the commands that would produce the logs?

Author: @iycheng Do you have a link to Ray observability?

Author: We have a doc internally. But the public url will be added by the end of this week. After that, I can have a followup pr for it.

`kubectl exec -it <head-node-pod> bash`

### Delete the RayService instance

> `$ kubectl delete -f config/samples/ray_v1alpha1_rayservice.yaml`

Reviewer: Could also include the command to clean up the operator.

## Ray Services (alpha)

> Note: This is the alpha version of Ray Services. There will be ongoing improvements for Ray Services in the future releases.

### Prerequisite

* Ray 2.0 is required.

### What is a RayService?

> The RayService is a new CR supported by KubeRay in v0.3.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RayService is a new custom resource (CR) supported by KubeRay in v0.3.0.
```

A RayService manages 2 things:
* RayCluster: Manages resources in kubernetes cluster.

> * Rey Serve Deployment Graph: Manages users' serve deployment graph.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Ray Serve Deployment Graph: Manages users' serve deployment graph.
```

Can we add a link to the deployment graph documentation?

### What does the RayService provide?

> * Kubernetes-native support for Ray cluster and Ray Serve deployment graphs. Users can use kubernetes config to define ray cluster and ray serve deployment graph. Users can use `kubectl` create ray cluster and ray serve deployment graph.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Kubernetes-native support for Ray cluster and Ray Serve deployment graphs. You can use a kubernetes config to define a ray cluster and its ray serve deployment graphs. Then you can use `kubectl` to create the cluster and its graphs.
```

For documentation, we can use "you" when referring to the user, since the users are the ones reading it. I recommend refactoring the documentation to use "you."

rayservice-sample-raycluster-qd2vl-head-svc        ClusterIP   10.100.180.221   <none>        6379/TCP,8265/TCP,10001/TCP,8000/TCP,52365/TCP   24m
# A serve service maintained by the RayService.
rayservice-sample-serve-svc                        ClusterIP   10.100.39.92     <none>        8000/TCP                                         24m
```

> Note: Default ports and their definition. 

| Port  | Definition          |
|-------|---------------------|
| 6379  | Ray GCS             |
| 8265  | Ray Dashboard       |
| 10001 | Ray Client          |
| 8000  | Ray Serve           |
| 52365 | Ray Dashboard Agent |

Get the RayService information with your RayService name.
```shell
$ kubectl describe  rayservices rayservice-sample
```

### Access User Services

The users' traffic can go through the `serve` service (for example, `rayservice-sample-serve-svc`).

#### Run a curl pod
`kubectl run curl --image=radial/busyboxplus:curl -i --tty`

For the fruit example deployment, you can try the following request
```shell
[ root@curl:/ ]$ curl  -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' rayservice-sample-serve-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:8000 -d '["MANGO", 2]'
6
```

> You can get the response as `6`.

Reviewer 2: During the in-person bug bash, the first command failed with `Error from server (AlreadyExists): pods "curl" already exists` and the second command failed with `curl: (6) Could not resolve host: t-rayservice-sample-serve-svc.default.svc.cluster.local`.  

The recommendation during the bug bash was to set up port forwarding.  If this is necessary, it should be included in the doc before this step.  But if it was some problem specific to the bug bash setup (like maybe the first command needed to succeed, but multiple users were sharing the `curl` pod) or user error, then no changes are needed

Author: The second is because the service is not created yet due to waiting for dashboard agent ready.

### Deploy the Operator

`$ kubectl apply -k "github.com/ray-project/kuberay/ray-operator/config/default"`

Check that the controller is running.

```shell
$ kubectl get deployments -n ray-system
NAME           READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
ray-operator   1/1     1            1           40s

$ kubectl get pods -n ray-system
NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
ray-operator-75dbbf8587-5lrvn   1/1     Running   0          31s
```

### Run an example cluster

There is one example config file to deploy RaySerive included here:
[ray_v1alpha1_rayservice.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray_v1alpha1_rayservice.yaml)

```shell
# Create a ray service and deploy fruit deployment graph.
$ kubectl apply -f config/samples/ray_v1alpha1_rayservice.yaml
```

```shell
# List running RayServices.
$ kubectl get rayservice
NAME                AGE
rayservice-sample   7s
```

```shell
# The created RayService should include a head pod, a worker pod, and four services.
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE

> ervice-sample-raycluster-qd2vl-worker-small-group-bxpp6   1/1     Running   0          24m

Reviewer: The fact that this name is getting cut off for a basic example is a symptom of all of the layers involved here
service -> cluster -> worker group -> pod

I wonder if we could shorten some names to avoid this...

Author: Actually there are some user defined names. So it is hard to totally avoid. But we should be able to reduce the chances.
